CONCEPT
Is a low-code platform that spans Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365 and standalone apps
helps to add value to any business by analyzing, acting and automating.

VALUE
Microsoft Power Platform enables your business to craft solutions,
 while empowering you to unite customized technology to help everyone,
  from CEO to front line workers and to drive the business with data-driven insights.
  fusion development, allowing organizations to use the best resources for the required task.

- Cost Benefits
- Increase performance and efficiency
- the speed of development (templates, connectors )

Microsoft Power Platform is composed:
- Power Apps (App development)
    It is a suite of apps development services with a scalable data platform (Microsoft Dataverse)
    and an ability to interact with cloud & on-premises data sources.
- Power Automate (process automation)
    Power Automate lets users create automated workflows between applications and services not only for individual users
    but also for enterprise-grade process automation.
- Power BI (business analytics)
    Sharing insights through data visualization (reports & dashboards) for fast, informed decisiones.
- Power Virtual Agents (intelligent virtual agents)
    empower SME to build and maintain their own conversational solution
- Power Pages (external facing website)
    building websites by using the same shared business data in Microsoft Dataverse that you use for
    building apps, VA, reports, analytics.

Additional Tools
AI Builder
Is a turnkey solution that allows you to easily add AI capabilities to your workflows / apps

AI Builder - 6 Models
- Category Classification
- Entity Extraction
- Form Processing
- Image Classification
- Object Detection
- Prediction

Microsfot Dataverse
Scalable data service which users can securely store and manage data from multiple sources and integrate them
in business apps using a common data model to ensure ease and consistency to users.
 It’s the foundation that enables the consolidation, display, and manipulation of data.
 In Dataverse data is stored in tables
Dataverse also has other elements that help with securing data, data validation, and productivity.

 Connectors
 enable you to connect apps, data, and devices in the cloud.
There are more than 900 pre-built connectors for Power Platform
They act as the bridge between data sources and your app or workflow.
Connectors allow you to extend your business solutions across platforms and add functionality for your users.

Type of data sources
Tabular data
  Is one that returns data in structured table format

Function-based data
   is one that uses functions to interact with the data source (send an email, update permissions, create a calendar event)

 Connectors are divided into standard and premium.
 - Standard connectors are SharePoint, Outlook and Youtube
 - Premium require additional licensing SQL Server, Survey Monkey, Mail Chimp

Microsoft also provides connectors to their Azure services, like reading text off images or recognizing faces in images.

Custom Connectors
- Custom connectors allow you to extend your app by calling a publicly available API
- Connectors work by sending information back and forth across these APIs
  and gathering available functions into Power Apps or Power Automate.
  8


Describe how Power Platform works with Microsoft 365 apps and service
Power Platform includes multiple connectors (Excel, SharePoint, Outlook, users) that are designed to work with Microsoft 365 services.
- Automating excel inputs
- Saving attachment into One drive

Explore how Power Platform works with Microsoft Teams?
Organizations can build custom applications for Teams based on the needs of their users.
Dedicated Power Virtual Assistant (FAQ)
Dedicated Expenses Submission for Open Houses
POWER BI Report for Analytics
External Website for Visitor to showcase products

Describe how Power Platform works with Microsoft Dynamics 365 apps?=
- Dynamics 365 has a variety of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer engagement applications.
- all Dynamics 365 customer engagement apps are what are referred to as model-driven applications.
 Model-driven applications are built using Power Apps. They are based on a data model store within Microsoft Dataverse.

Describe how Power Platform solutions consume Microsoft Azure services
 Azure services can be used with Power Platform to help modernize legacy systems,
  automate processes, and create advanced analytical solutions.

Describe Power Platform Administration
- Environments are used to store, manage, and share your organization's business data, apps, and flows.
- Each environment allows you to provision one Microsoft Dataverse database
- Each environment is created under a Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant.
- An environment is also bound to a geographic location
-  A separate environment ensures that everything can be tested without impacting users.

Microsoft Power Platform admin center
- Is a tool for admin to manage and maintain any Power Platform Implementation

Maker Portal (Power Automate, POwer BI, Power Pages, Power Virtual Agents)
- Are product-specific(Power App portal), update tables, connections, flows related to this environment

Describe Power Platform security and governance
The platform is governed by the Microsoft Online Service Terms and the Microsoft Enterprise Privacy Statement
Microsft Trust Center is the primary resource for Power Platform compliance information

Data Lost prevention policies
Data loss preventions (DLP) policies act as guardrails to help prevent users to expose unintentionally organizational data
It offers the right balance between protection and productivity.
Connectors can be classified as
Business --> Connectors host business-use data
Non-Business --> Connect host personal-use data
Blocked --> Connects you want to restrict usage across one or move enviroment

Data Protection
Data in transit and within MS Datacenter are secured
Connections are encrypted, all public end points are secured using TLS.
TLS 1.2 (or higher) is requried for accessing the server endpoints.

Data loss prevention policies can be used to control the use of connectors to data and services. DLP policies allow classifying connectors as business, non-business, and blocked.

Accessibility
An accessible canvas app will allow users with vision, hearing, and other impairments to successfully use the app.
You can use Accessibility Checker to help review potential accessibility issues in your app.

admin.powerplatform.microsoft.com/Development
Accessibility in Microsoft Power Platform --> an accessible canvas app will allow users with
vision, hearing, and other impartment to successfully use the app.
Data policies prevent an app or a flow from connecting to two different data sources
that may allow data to be accessed or copied outside of the organization.
The Microsoft Power Platform CoE toolkit will enable monitoring of the apps
 conditional access can control when a user can access a Power Apps app using various signals such as location and device.
