Common Scenarios adn capabilities of Power Automate
- Automating repetitive tasks such as moving data from one system to another
- Guiding a user through a process so they can complete the different stages.
 For example, a sales organization might want to guide sellers through the process of selling products to customers.
- Automating desktop based and website processes with robotic process automation (RPA) capabilities.


Scale automation efficently:
- Pre-built templates
- Automate across your favorite apps and service (500+ connectors)
- Integrates with MS ecosystem (Azure, M365, Dynamics 365)
- On-premises and in the Cloud


3 types of flows
Event driven Flows:
- require a trigger
- One or two more actions
Cloud flows: These are most used flows
  Automated Flows: Flows which are triggered by an event.
  Instant Flows: Are started with a click of a button (boss reminder)
  Scheduled: Flows run on a defined schedule.

    Trigger: Determine what starts the flow
    Actions: Determine what the flow does

Cloud flows are used more to Automate using API
Desktop flows are often used for user interface automation .

  Scenarios
    Approvals
    Application Integration
    Improve productivity

The difference between My Flow and My Team Flow is the ownership.

Business process flows
--> Use to create guided-experience on
--> These flows are used in model-driven apps to help people get work done.

Model-driven applications
Sales Process
Case Resolution
Event Planning
Selling a home

During each stage, there is information that needs to be logged.
Based on the information captured, the stages of the business process flow might change.
For example, since the Counter Offer field is set to yes, the counter offer stage appears.
 If the Counter Offer field was set to no, the stage would not appear.

Desktop Flows
--> Robotic Process Automation Solutions
Record yourself performing actions, letting you automate manual business processes.
Desktop flows are addressed to essentially everyone who is performing simple or complex rule-based tasks on their workstations.6

AI Capabilities
1. Form processesor:
  Extracts text from an uploaded image or taken photo

2. Object Detector:
  Identifies objects from uploaded image or taken photo, and provides a count of the number objects present

3. Prediction:
  Model predicts whether something will happen or not based on historic data
  Will the customer be satisfied with the project outcome?
  Will a project be profitable
  Will a customer churn based on an activity?

4. Text Classification
  Categorize Text by its meaning, making it is easier to analyze.

5. Entity Extraction
  Recognize specific information about your business from data

6. Image Classification
  Label image based on their content

Explore the different Power Automate Apps
Power Automate Portal: Single access point for makers where they can easily create, manage, monitor the different Flows
Power Automate Mobile: Provide access to Power Automate while on the go.
Power Automate for Desktop: Is used to create robotic process auotmation flows.

Data Processing
Compose creates an array that you can reference later in the flow.
Apply to each is a loop that processes each record in a set of data in turn.
A condition is used for if…then…else logic to control the actions taken in a flow.
A switch action is used to perform different actions depending on a value in the flow.
