Concept
Self-service platform that helps you discover, analize and visualize data in toder to discuss insights with your colleagues
allows to connect different data stores (Excel files, databases, azure data, Dynamic 365, Salesforce, Facebook, Google Analytic)
data is only good, as long is able to be understood.
unrelated sources data into into coherent and  visuall inmersive insights.

Microsoft Power BI is a collection of software services, apps, and connectors that work together
to turn your unrelated sources of data into coherent, visually immersive, and interactive insights.

Parts of Power BI
- Power BI Desktop (desktop app)
- Power BI Service (SaaS)
- Mobile Power BI (phone - tablets)

Key Components
Capacities --> shared (share with others MS customer - by default workspaces are craeted on a shared capacity) or dedicated (required a subscription) capacity to host and deliver content
Workspaces --> are containers for dashboards, reports, datasets and dataflows in Power BI.
My workspace is for personal use, it could also be shared for collaboration purpose. Workspace are created on a Share capacity
 by default. Workspaces are used to collaborate and share content with colleagues. All workspace memebers need Power BI Pro licenses
Datasets --> collection of data, whether are imported or connect to Workspaces. You can share your own workspace.
  A dataset can be shared and can be used to create new reports and dashboards.
  Discovering and reusing those standardized datasets is key.
  To consume these shared datasets just choose Power BI datasets when creating your Power BI report.
Reports: One or more page of visualization (Reading view, Editing view). To collaborate all members need Power BI Pro license
  Sharing a report only allows a user to interact with the report
Dashboards: Single canvas containing tiles and widgets (Easy viewing and monitoring).
  Sharing a dashboard only allows a user to interact with the dashboard
  Each tile pinned from a report or from Q&A displays a single visualization that was created from a dataset and pinned to the dashboard.
App is a collection of Dashboards. Are interactive, consumer does not need PRO license.

why do people build Dashboard

  To see all information needed to make decisions in one glance.
  To monitor the most important information about your business.
  To ensure all colleagues are on the same page, viewing and using the same information.
  To monitor the health of a business, product, business unit, or marketing campaign, etc.
  To create a personalized view of a larger dashboard and show all the metrics that matter to them.


Template Apps
- Enable Power BI partners to build Power BI apps and deploy to any Power BI customer.
- you create a set of out-of-the-box content

Describe cleaning and tranforming data
Cleaning and transforming data is how you prepare your data and get it ready to be used.
To begin transforming and cleaning data, you use the Power BI Desktop application.
Power BI Desktop includes the Power Query Editor tool,

1. Tranform data with query Editor from different sources (CRM, Cloud)
  ** It's also important that you have a header row but no columns or rows that display totals.
2. Create Reports with Power BI Desktop
3. Publish report with Power BI Service
4. Browser & consume with mobile apps

Describe using AI Insights to spot trends and anomalies
Power BI’s insights feature helps organizations easily identify insights such as anomalies and trends in
 your data as you interact and consume elements such as reports, dashboards, and visualizations.

There are multiple insights feature powered by AI
Insights for reports
Insights for individuals visuals
Insights for dashboard tiles
Quick insights for datasets
AI inisghts for data models in Power Query

When Power BI identifies insights, you're presented with a notification

An anomaly is an abnormality in time-series data, such as unexpected spikes and dips in the data.
A trend occurs when there's a prolonged increase or decrease in time-series data.
KPI analysis with a target looks at the variance of the current value to its target.


Ribbon.
Report View
Pages Table
Visualization pane
Fields pane

Silcers is the simple way to filtering your report page.
Others type:
- Report
- Page
- Visual
- Drillthrough


Transformation is done with Power Query Editor
 Transpose data allows xto swap rows into columns.
 Format data is also possible

 When you combine values in data, it is called aggregating.
 Sum for numeric values
 Average for numeric values
 Do NOt Summarize
 Count is for Text
Latest is for Date type of data

 Security and Admins.
 Power BI is built in Azure, users sign in with their credentials held in Azure AD, admin determined if recipients can edit or read only

Power BI reports allow users to drill into data, but not aggregate multiple datasets.
A report can be tied to a single data set and have multiple pages.
Dashboards allow the aggregation of data into a single page, and they can only be published in the Power BI service.
Dashboards consist of a single page
A visualization can be selected and then pinned to a new or an existing dashboard
The Q&A feature on the dashboard allows asking a question about the data and this generates visualizations that can be pinned to the dashboard.
Pinning a live report page will add the page and all its visualizations to a dashboard.
The visualization pane is available for reports not for dashboards.

Bar charts are used to visualize and compare data across categories.
Dot plot charts allow you to compare multiple measures by their magnitudes and represent the data with dots.
Gauge charts are useful to represent a single value that measures progress towards a goal or a KPI.
Combo charts are suitable for the comparison of data between two measures in a single visualization.
A map is meant to associate quantity information to locations.
A line chart can be used to display a series over time.
A pie chart is meant to show the relationship of parts to a whole.
 KPI is meant to show the progress towards a goal.

The Modeling view allows viewing a diagram of available tables and their relationships with each other.
