Power Pages
Websites are an important part of establishing your organization’s identity and a critical component in building loyalty.
Microsoft Power Pages is a platform for creating, hosting, and administering modern external-facing business websites.
Power Pages provides you with rich customizable templates,
With Power Pages, you can build sites by using your organization's business data stored in Microsoft Dataverse.
When some elements do not meet the specific need, maker could extend the functionality using Visual Studio Code
and the Power Platform Command-Line Interface (CLI) to create powerful business application websites.

Value proposition
- Improve customer interactions
- Simplify data operations
- Improve day to day operations
- Build Relationship with buyers

Building a site using Power Pages
  Create a website.
  Define the pages.
  - The main tool that is used to build sites is the Design Studio.
  -  Design Studio is broken down into workspaces:
      Pages workspace: Allows makers to create, edit the design, and arrange the webpages in your site.
        These widgets include text, image, video, Power BI reports, lists, forms, and others.
      Styling workspace: Used to personalize the look and feel of your site by adding styling and theming to your site.
      Data workspace: Allows you to create and modify Microsoft Dataverse tables used in data-driven web applications
        In the Data workspace, a maker can use pre-existing or new Dataverse model-driven app views to build list components.
      Set up workspace: Primary administrative area for side administration and management.
  Theme and brand your site.
    Styling offers 13 preset themes. For each theme, you can customize the color palette, background color, font styles, button styles, and section margins.
    The Styling workspace lets you apply global site styles.
  Connect to Dataverse Data.
    When working in the Data workspace, makers can create and modify Dataverse tables directly in the Design Studio by using the Data workspace.
  Secure your site.
    With Power Pages, you can set up different security components to ensure that important data isn't being exposed to just anyone.

Scenario-based templates are complete sites that meet common needs such as registering for afterschool classes, applying for permits, and booking meetings.
 Site design templates create websites with a set of premade pages with different layouts, images, and colors.
