1. You need to enable users to ask questions with natural language phrases.?
ANSWER --> Power BI, Power Virtual Agents

2. Information about the request must be stored in a SharePoint Online list.
When a new item is added to the list, a new team must be created for that project.
ANSWER --> Create an automted Cloud flow - Add a connection to Microsoft Teams

3. You need to prevent external leakage of corporate data.
ANSWER --> Create data policies

4. You need to recommend whether to use Microsoft Dataverse or Microsoft Dataverse for Teams
to store data for a new Power Apps app.
ANSWER --> Auditing, Multiple Business Unit

5. You plan to create a one-to-many relationship between two tables named TableA and TableB in Microsoft Dataverse.
You need to identify the column data type that is created for the relationship in TableB.
ANSWER --> lookup

6. You have a column that allows users to select one of two options: Approve or Reject.
You need to allow for adding more options to the column or changing the label of the options in the future.
ANSWER --> Choice

7. You need to fetch data from the portal in a flow.
ANSWER --> Custom connector

8. The sales team has prebuilt reports in Power BI that contain sales data.
You need to recommend a solution that allows users to reuse the same dataset to build their own reports and dashboards.
ANSWER --> Share the dataset containing sales data

9. You need to aggregate a text field by adding it to a visual in a Power BI report.
ANSWER --> COUNT

10. An operations manager needs to view a single page of information each day that shows the following:
Create a Power BI Dashboard by using the Power BI service.

11. You need to create a dashboard containing tiles for individual visualizations.
ANSWER --> Pin a visualization - Use the Q&A question box

12. You need to set the text color to red?
Select the label control. Select the color picker control in the toolbar and choose red from the color menu.
Select the label control. Choose the Color property in the formula bar. Set the formula value to Color.Red.
Select the label control. Open the Properties pane and choose the Advanced tab. Find the Color property and add Color.Red to the textbox.

13. You need to ensure that the app displays data from an Azure SQL database.
ANSWER --> Canvas app

14. You configure a canvas app to track and order office stationery. The app allows users to order multiple stationery items.
The items selected by the user must be reset each time a user reopens the app.
You need to store user selections.
ANSWER --> Collection

15. You need to add a table to the navigation pane of the app.
Subarea in sitemap can be used to show tables/ dashboards/custom pages:

16. You need to create a Power Automate flow to allow managers to approve or deny vacation requests.
Cloud Flow, Business process flow

17. You need to ensure users can access the attachment in the approval notification.
Email inbox, Power Automate Portal, Microsoft Teams

18. You need to ensure an email notification is added to the flow.
Action

19. You need to enter identical data that will be referenced in multiple paths in the flow only once.
Compose

20.You need to ensure that the chatbot understands natural language phrases.
A Power Virtual Agents entity allows a chatbot to map natural language to a general subject.
Topics are used to determine the general category of the conversation.
A channel allows a bot to be available to a particular platform, such as Microsoft Teams.

21.You need to share Dataverse data with external users.
Form and list components can be added to a web page in a Power Pages site to expose data from Dataverse to external customers.
